[MUSIC]
>> Scott: Exercise two,
we're just gonna convert the web
Todo app to a React Native app.
So let's actually just walk through
setting up a React Native app and
getting started.
And some clues on how to
transfer that stuff over.
So what we'll do is we'll
just make a new repo.
I think I already have it here, Todo.
>> Scott: What's in here?
I don't know what’s in there,
let's just make a new one.
I know that's going to
take forever NPM install.
So yeah, let's just walk a new one,
let’s do that.
So the first thing we'll do is navigate to
somewhere on your computer where you want
to make an app.
And he's gonna run the command and
react-native init followed by
the name of the app you wanna create.
So in this case,
I called mine Todo with a capital T.
So this is gonna create the directory for
you.
It's gonna create the Android and
iOS app for you with the same name.
So that's why I capitalized it here.
That's gonna be the name of the app, Todo.
You can change it, but
by default that's what it's gonna be.
You can put whatever you want,
it's totally up you.
But that's the directory name and
the app names.
>> Scott: So once you have that,
it's gonna take a minute to install.
Don't worry about
following along right now,
I'm gonna set you guys loose on
an exercise to continue doing this.
Otherwise, that's there,
you can go into that and
you'll see what it creates is,
let me get rid of this.
By the way I'm using Atom.
I've been switching editors for the last
week between VS code, Sublime, Atom.
They all have tradeoffs,
like when I use Angular2, I use VS code,
cuz it's got like great type of script
support, but then it looks ugly.
So I could back to Atom, cuz Atom looks
good with an Atom's slow so you Sublime.
But in Sublime, doesn't have good via,
it's like man, it's not a perfect one.
I don't know if I'm ready to go to
the dark side with WebStorm yet.
To much configuration for me, but I know
it will do everything I need it to do.
It's just like,
do I really wanna set all that stuff up?
Maybe I will, maybe I might have to do it.
We'll see, one weekend.
Sweet, so now let's open that up.
But so far, I mean I've been pretty calm,
but with Atom, it's just slow sometimes.
>> Speaker 2: I miss the command to create
a new project, can you show it again?
>> Scott: Yeah, the command for
the new project is just
gonna be react-native
init followed by the name of the project.
>> Speaker 2: Thanks.
>> Scott: Yep, so it's gonna like download
some stuff.
It's gonna take a minute,
depending on who's all downloading.
But once it's done,
it's gonna create this for you.
It's gonna create all
this good stuff here.
So let's just walk through
this directory very quick.
So notice the package.json.
Boom, that means this
is a node application.
So that means,
we can use no modules, awesome.
So it's just JavaScript,
that's a key indicator right there,
I think that's amazing.
And if you're looking at package.json,
you'll see the name, it's called Todo.
It starts off as private and
it gives you the start command.
And it already has react, and
react-native downloaded for you.
No react doms,
cuz remember there's no dom here.
And then if we head over,
you'll see there's index.android and
index.ios, and we look at them.
They're actually the exact same,
pretty much.
And the reason they have these two files
is these are the entry files to the two
applications you want.
If you're gonna be building for Android
and iOS, they give you the opportunity to
have two entry files to your application,
so that you can have differences.
So maybe the index.android is gonna be
pulling modules in from a different
party or app specific to Android.
And indexed.ios is gonna pull
the modules and specifically for iOS,
because it's gonna build it differently.
So this is how you can set of
differences between two applications.
This is one approach the other approach,
the other approach is will get into later,
is you can actually react-native will
give you a module to determine what
platform you're running on.
And then you can just use that as
conditionals everywhere in your code.
If platform Android render this,
if platform iOS render this.
See, that's another way to do it too,
or a combination of the both.
So once we have all that, you probably
wanna do is make a new folder somewhere,
call a source or app or something.
And that's where you gonna write your
code, so your code is gonna go in there.
So once all that's done, all you can do
is now, you can just run react-native.
Actually, can just run npm start,
but for me, sometimes it breaks,
let's see what happens.
So if you are in npm start,
let's actually just look at the command.
Yeah, it's gonna start to see like,
this actually breaks to me sometime,
because of permission errors.
So instead what I'm gonna do
is I'm gonna run react-native,
>> Scott: Run-android.
So I'm mainly gonna be
running this on Android.
We gonna iOS too, but
once we go both of them, I'm just gonna
stick with Android and go from there.
It's just been easier for me as far as a
far as developing with gene motions stuff.
So when you want t run Android what's
gonna do is going to look for a device by
Android device on your computer simulated
or a device that you have plugged up right
now I'm not writing in later I don't have
a device plugged up so once all this
builds and it starts the is going to
crash because it can't build something.
So before you run this, you wanna make
sure you actually have your device.
And if you run on iOS, you have a Mac,
just have Xcode download it with
the simulator set up and you're fine.
You don't have to do anything else.
But for Android, what you want to do is,
you could check, if you run adb
devices here, it'll list all the devices
that you do or do not have attached.
And you can see right now,
I have no devices attached.
If I plug my phone up right now,
and I'll put debugging on it.
It'll show up here.
I'm not going to do that.
I'm actually just going to
use Genymotion instead.
And it already configured a Nexus 5X here,
so I can just start that in Genymotion.
That's just going to start
up this virtual device here.
So we'll let this build.
And also, the emulators for android studio
2 is actually pretty fast now.I don't
know&nbsp;if anybody's ever checked it
out but they're actually pretty good now.
I think they're actually even faster
than Genymotion which is crazy
because they used to be horrible, like
the worst, and now they're pretty good.
But I didn't feel like setting all
that stuff up because I only have like
three gigs left my computer so couldn't
afford to download all those images.
[LAUGH] I know I need to
do something about that.
Anyway, let's bring this,
we'll keep it here for now.
And what we'll do is,
I've got so many things open.
Let's do that.
So what we'll do now is,
I'll bring this over here side by side, so
we can see what's happening.
There we go.
Cool.
Okay.
So I got my Android phone running.
It's a full Android phone.
You can do everything but
make calls and use the camera.
It's pretty dope.
And now what I want to do is
actually run that command.
So if you head back here I can
run react-native run android.
And remember, if you're running on iOS,
just do run iOS.
I'm doing Android.
Actually, let's just check and
make sure the devices are set up,
adb devices, there it is.
There's our device that we just started.
It's good to go.
So we can just go ahead and
run react If I can type,
native run Android.
Yeah I have an alias for
this cuz it's just so much to type.
So this is going to build
our Android application
using Gradle which is the build
system that Android opted into.
And the first time it's gonna
take a little longer than it
normally would after that because
of caching absentization for
the first I was going
to take a little bit.
So once this bill there's a few
things that's happening here.
You saw that it popped up in this
window over here this new terminal.
This is what's called the reactor
native packager or so
this is literally just
a server that's running.
That's watching our files using watchman.
Actually that built pretty fast.
I guess I must have cached already.
This is watching our files and this is
going to trance polities and babble just
like we have with out react web app, it's
doing the same thing on another server so
this is just a light service trance
polygraphs watching the files for us.
That's it.
And that in
here you can see it actually built the
application they did all this great stuff.
This is all the great will build
stuff install this case on.
On this device.
BUILD SUCCESSFUL.
So now if we go back and look,
you'll see boom, it went ahead and
it launched the app for us on the device.
Let me scoot this over just a little bit.
>> Scott: There we go.
So there is our app.
And we can confirm it's our app because
if we go look at the index.android.js,
we'll see the same stuff
inside of the template here.
We'll see, Welcome to React Native,
there it is.
To get started, and all that good stuff.
Now let's actually take a look at what's
going on in this file really quick.
So we just made a React web app.
And we talked about how to use a class and
extend the component.
I mean, this looks exactly the same.
We're making a class called Todo.
It's actually the same class that we made,
the same name.
We're extending a component here.
We have a render method.
And it's just returning some JSX.
The only difference here is that we're
using these things called views and
text that we didn't use before, instead
we used devs an input that is the only
difference here and I just told you
guys views is literally like a dev and
a text is like a some text element like
H1 or P tag that is only difference
everything else exactly the same.I
think that's pretty amazing.
So now that we have that,
any questions on this stuff so
far?
>> Scott: No.
So those components that we're using
that's what react native provides for us.
So we actually import those components
from react native whereas React itself and
the Component class that we're
extending comes from React,
the exact same react we just used on
the web, it's the exact same react.
The only difference here is where as
on the web we were using react-dom,
in native we're using react-native.